Kirk: SPACE:
THE FINAL FRONTIER.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO BOLDLY GO
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 7403.6.
THE ENTERPRISE IS
ON A SERIES OF EXPLORATORY
AND CONTACT MISSIONS.
TRAVELING WITH US
AS AN INDEPENDENT OBSERVER
IS A MEMBER
OF A RECENTLY CONTACTED
ALIEN SPECIES,
HONORARY COMMANDER
ARI BN BEM.
HE'S FROM THE PLANET PANDRO
IN THE GARO VII SYSTEM.
WE HAVE TAKEN UP ORBIT
AROUND DELTA THETA III,
A NEWLY DISCOVERED
CLASS-M PLANET.
A PREVIOUS SCOUTING MISSION
HAS REPORTED POSSIBLE
ABORIGINAL LIFE FORMS HERE,
AND THE ENTERPRISE
IS TO INVESTIGATE AND REPORT.
SENSORS REPORT
SEVERAL GROUPINGS
OF ABORIGINES.
THEY MAY BE DANGEROUS.
SO I WANT ALL OF US
TO AVOID ANY
UNNECESSARY RISKS.
BUT THESE MONITORING DEVICES
HAVE TO BE PLANTED.
LIEUTENANT UHURA
WILL BE TRACKING US
THROUGHOUT.
NOW, IF THERE'S
ANY TROUBLE OF ANY KIND,
BEAM UP IMMEDIATELY.
DON'T TRY TO BE A HERO.
AYE, SIR.
[DOOR OPENS]
OH, KIRK CAPTAIN,
SETTINGS ARE ALMOST COMPLETE.
COMMANDER BEM,
WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE?
THIS ONE HAS DECIDED
TO ACCOMPANY CONTACT TEAM
FOR OBSERVATION OF SAME.
COMMANDER BEM, YOU WERE ASSIGNED
TO THIS SHIP
AS AN INDEPENDENT OBSERVER,
YET YOU HAVE SPENT THE PAST
SIX MISSIONS IN YOUR QUARTERS.
YOU HAVEN'T DONE ANY OBSERVING
AT ALL, UNTIL NOW,
WHEN WE'RE DEALING
WITH POSSIBLY
A VERY DANGEROUS PLANET.
[GRUNTING] PATIENCE.
EVERY PLANET IS DANGEROUS
TO THE IGNORANT.
THIS ONE HAS DECIDED
THAT THE NEXUS IS NOW.
MUST OBSERVE WORKINGS
OF STARSHIP AND CREW.
THIS MISSION IS NOT
FOR CASUAL OBSERVERS.
IT COULD BE HAZARDOUS.
-AM PREPARED.
-COMMANDER BEM,
THIS IS NOT A JOYRIDE,
A PLEASURE EXCURSION.
I CANNOT LET YOU BEAM
DOWN TO THE PLANET
WITHOUT ADEQUATE PROTECTION.
I'M SURE YOU UNDERSTAND
THE DIPLOMATIC CONSEQUENCES
IF ANYTHING WERE
TO HAPPEN TO YOU
WHILE YOU ARE UNDER
MY PROTECTION.
UNDERSTANDING IT IS, CAPTAIN,
BUT THIS ONE REMAINS ADAMANT.
AM PREPARED TO ACCOMPANY.
THIS IS AN ODD TIME
TO REMAIN ADAMANT.
ALL RIGHT, LET'S GO.
THERE'S A PLANET
WAITING FOR US.
THIS ONE HAS ALREADY
SET CONTROLS, MR. SCOTTY.
EVERYTHING APPEARS
TO BE ALL RIGHT, SIR.
COORDINATES ARE LOCKED
ON THE LANDING SITE.
ENERGIZE.
ASSISTANCE IS OFFERED.
WE'RE ALL RIGHT.
IN THE FUTURE,
COMMANDER BEM,
YOU WILL LEAVE
THE OPERATION
OF THE TRANSPORTER
TO MR. SCOTT,
OR ONE OF THE REGULAR
TRANSPORTER CREW.
CAPTAIN, LIEUTENANT UHURA
REPORTS SOME PECULIAR ACTIVITY
HERE ON THE PLANET.
WHAT IS IT, LIEUTENANT?
LIEUTENANT AREX
HAS BEEN TRACKING
A NON-NETWORK
SENSORY STASIS.
IT'S HARDLY MORE
THAN A FLICKER,
AND IT'S SEVERAL
THOUSAND KILOMETERS
WEST OF YOUR POSITION.
-Kirk: SAY AGAIN.
-Uhura: AN ANOMALY, SIR.
IT RESEMBLES A SENSOR FIELD,
BUT WITHOUT A SCANNING GRID
OR OTHER POINT OF REFERENCE.
Kirk: IS IT MOVING?
BROWNIAN MOVEMENT ONLY,
CAPTAIN.
NO DISCERNIBLE DIRECTION.
THE IMPLICATION IS THAT
THERE IS SOMETHING ELSE
ON THIS PLANET.
PERHAPS SOMETHING
INTELLIGENT.
IT MIGHT BE
JUST AN ATMOSPHERIC EFFECT.
SOME KIND OF
ELECTRICAL STORM.
WE'VE SEEN UNIDENTIFIED
PLANETARY PHENOMENA BEFORE
THAT HAVE RESEMBLED
INTELLIGENT ACTIVITY.
KEEP WATCHING IT,
LIEUTENANT UHURA,
AND PUT THE SHIP
ON YELLOW ALERT.
WE'LL CONTINUE
THE CONTACT MISSION
FOR NOW,
BUT NOTIFY US IMMEDIATELY
IF THERE'S ANY
CHANGE IN THE SITUATION.
KIRK OUT.
Spock: THE RAIN FOREST
IS ESPECIALLY THICK
IN THIS DISTRICT.
LIFE ON THIS PLANET APPEARS TO
BE GEOLOGICALLY YOUNGER
THAN ONE WOULD EXPECT,
GIVEN THE AGE OF THIS STAR.
THIS ONE IS
PICKING UP READINGS
OF A LARGE GROUP OF
LIFE FORMS DIRECTLY AHEAD.
ALL RIGHT.
WE MUST TAKE CARE
NOT TO BE SEEN...
[RUSTLING]
HEY, BEM! BEM, COME BACK!
SCOTTY, SULU, STAY HERE
WITH THE MONITORING DEVICES.
COME ON, SPOCK.
Spock: HE WON'T
GET FAR IN THERE.
LET'S GO.
HE'S GONE.
HE WOULD HAVE HAD TO GO THROUGH
HERE TO ESCAPE.
THERE HE IS.
I DON'T KNOW
HOW HE DID IT,
BUT HE GOT THROUGH.
COME ON. WE'LL HAVE
TO GO AROUND.
Kirk:
THAT PANDRONIAN'S ACTIONS
JUST DON'T MAKE SENSE.
Spock: THEY MIGHT
TO ANOTHER PANDRONIAN,
CAPTAIN.
I BELIEVE HE WENT
THAT WAY, CAPTAIN.
ON THE OTHER HAND...
I THINK WE'VE LOST HIM.
THAT WAY.
Spock: IT APPEARS TO BE A NATIVE
FOOD-GATHERING PARTY.
YES, AND THE FOOD
THEY HAVE GATHERED IS BEM.
LIEUTENANT UHURA,
I'M READING INCREASED ACTIVITY
ON THE SURFACE
OF THE PLANET.
THE SENSORY ANOMALY
APPEARS TO BE EXPANDING.
CONTACT THE LANDING PARTY.
COMMANDER SCOTT HERE.
Uhura: MR. SCOTT,
WHERE'S THE CAPTAIN?
Scotty:
HE'S BEEN SEPARATED
FROM US.
COMMANDER BEM RAN OFF
FOR SOME REASON.
THEY'RE IN THE FOREST.
THE CAPTAIN IS NOT ANSWERING
HIS COMMUNICATOR
AND IT DOES NOT SHOW UP
ON THE SCANNING GRID.
IT'S AS IF ITS RESPONDER
HAS BEEN DISCONNECTED.
WE'RE PICKING UP
INCREASED ACTIVITY
FROM THAT ANOMALY.
IS MR. SPOCK
WITH THE CAPTAIN?
AYE. THEY BOTH WENT
AFTER COMMANDER BEM.
LIEUTENANT AREX,
START A SENSOR SCAN
FOR CAPTAIN KIRK
AND MR. SPOCK.
LANDING PARTY,
PREPARE TO BEAM UP.
Scotty: LIEUTENANT UHURA,
WE COULD TRACK
THE CAPTAIN DOWN.
I'M SORRY, MR. SCOTT,
THAT'S NOT PROCEDURE.
WE CAN'T TAKE CHANCES.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
THE CAPTAIN.
I KNOW IT,
BUT WE HAVE TO FOLLOW
HIS ORDERS.
STAND BY TO BEAM UP.
Scotty: STANDING BY.
MAYBE WE CAN BEAM HIM
OUT OF THERE.
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
THIS ISN'T MY COMMUNICATOR.
THESE ARE NOT
ENTERPRISE COMMUNICATORS,
CAPTAIN.
THEY ARE FAKES.
EXCELLENT,
BUT NON-WORKING FORGERIES.
THIS COMMUNICATOR'S
BEEN ON MY BELT
SINCE WE BEAMED DOWN.
OUR PHASERS
DON'T WORK EITHER.
Kirk: OUR PHASERS
AND COMMUNICATORS
HAVE BEEN SWITCHED FOR PHONIES,
AND COMMANDER BEM
HAS RUN OFF.
WE'VE BEEN SEPARATED
FROM THE REST
OF THE LANDING PARTY.
MR. SPOCK,
SOMETHING FUNNY
IS GOING ON.
AN ALTERNATE COURSE
OF ACTION
WOULD APPEAR TO BE
ADVISABLE.
BUT COMMANDER BEM'S
DIFFICULTY APPEARS
TO BE GENUINE.
PHASERS OR NOT,
WE HAVE TO RESCUE HIM.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
TO FOLLOW THEM.
ONE OF US COULD GO BACK
TO CONTACT MR. SCOTT.
WE CAN'T RISK IT,
NOT WHILE THEY'RE MOVING.
WE MAY NEVER BE ABLE
TO FIND THEM AGAIN.
THESE ABORIGINES
APPEAR TO BE IN
A LATE PRIMITIVE STATE.
OBVIOUSLY INTELLIGENT,
THEY SEEM TO HAVE
A BASIC LANGUAGE
AND SOCIAL STRUCTURE.
I WOULD ASSUME
FAIRLY WELL-DEVELOPED MORES
AND TRADITIONS AS WELL.
Kirk: COMMANDER BEM
SEEMS TO BE
A MODEL PRISONER.
WE'LL HAVE TO WAIT
UNTIL NIGHTFALL.
[RUSTLING]
-KIRK CAPTAIN?
-SHUT UP.
WE'RE RESCUING YOU.
YOU ARE INTERFERING
WITH OBSERVATIONS.
THIS IS HOW YOU OBSERVE,
BY BEING CAPTURED?
AS LOGICAL A WAY AS ANY,
SPOCK COMMANDER.
I DON'T THINK STARFLEET
WOULD APPROVE.
COME ON.
[SNARLING]
UH-OH!
HOW COME WE ALWAYS
END UP LIKE THIS?
I ASSUME THAT'S
A RHETORICAL QUESTION,
CAPTAIN,
NOT REQUIRING AN ANSWER.
I WAS JUST EXPRESSING
MY CURIOSITY
AT OUR ABILITY
TO GET INTO THESE
KIND OF SITUATIONS.
FATE, CAPTAIN.
-FATE.
-FATE, SPOCK?
I BELIEVE THAT IS
THE CORRECT EARTH TERM.
WHY DON'T YOU TRY YOUR, UH,
VULCAN NERVE PINCH?
CAPTAIN, I AM ONLY A VULCAN.
THERE ARE LIMITS.
COMMANDER BEM, I'M AFRAID
THAT WE'RE NOT GOING TO BE
ABLE TO RESCUE YOU.
GOOD INTENTIONS, KIRK CAPTAIN,
ARE NOT ENOUGH.
PLANET PANDRO WILL BE
MUCH DISPLEASED.
STARFLEET TOLD US
YOU ARE BEST CAPTAIN
IN FLEET.
ACTIONS TO DATE BELIE THIS.
COMMANDER BEM,
YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR
THE SITUATION WE ARE IN.
YOU DISOBEYED ORDERS
BY RUNNING OFF.
YOUR ATTITUDE HAS BEEN
EXTREMELY ABRASIVE AND...
I DON'T KNOW
HOW YOU DID IT.
YOU REPLACED OUR PHASERS
AND COMMUNICATORS
WITH PHONIES.
YOU PLACE TOO MUCH
DEPENDENCE, KIRK CAPTAIN,
ON PHASERS
AND COMMUNICATORS.
Kirk:
EITHER ONE COULD SOLVE
OUR PROBLEMS RIGHT NOW.
IF THAT IS ALL.
COMMANDER BEM,
IF YOU HAD
THOSE TWO PHASERS
AND THOSE COMMUNICATORS
ALL THIS TIME,
WHY DIDN'T YOU USE THEM
TO ESCAPE?
SIR, THIS ONE DOES NOT
DEMEAN ONESELF
BY THE USE OF CASUAL VIOLENCE
TO ACCOMPLISH GOALS.
OH.
BUT YOU MAY DEMEAN YOURSELF
IF YOU WISH.
I WANT THOSE PHASERS
AND COMMUNICATORS NOW.
COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS IS...
THIS ONE MUST DISASSEMBLE.
FASCINATING.
REMARKABLE.
COMMANDER BEM
IS A COLONY CREATURE.
COMMANDER BEM,
IF YOU COULD SPLIT YOURSELF
INTO SEPARATE PARTS,
WHY DIDN'T YOU ESCAPE
ON YOUR OWN EARLIER?
AND DENY YOU THE OPPORTUNITY
TO PROVE YOUR VALUE
TO PLANET PANDRO
BY RESCUING THIS ONE
FROM POSSIBLY
DANGEROUS SITUATION?
THIS IS NOT A LABORATORY,
COMMANDER BEM.
THIS IS A HOSTILE PLANET,
AND REPRESENTATIVES
OF STARFLEET
ARE NOT EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS
FOR YOU TO TEST!
CONSIDER YOURSELF
UNDER ARREST.
PROTECTIVE CUSTODY,
TO KEEP YOU
FROM ANY MORE ESCAPADES.
MR. SPOCK, KEEP WATCH.
Scotty: LIEUTENANT AREX,
HAVE YOU FOUND THEM YET?
NO, SIR,
IT IS A BIG PLANET.
MR. SCOTT,
THAT SENSORY ANOMALY,
IT'S EXPANDED TO COVER
THE WHOLE NORTHERN CONTINENT.
WHAT'S THAT?
WE CAN'T GET ANY READINGS
AT ALL NOW.
AYE, THAT TEARS IT.
THE LOCH NESS MONSTER
COULDN'T GET THROUGH THAT.
THERE'S SOME KIND
OF INTERFERENCE
ON ALL CHANNELS.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
GET OUT OF THIS VILLAGE
ON OUR OWN.
Spock: I DOUBT
WE'LL BE ABLE TO DO SO
WITHOUT BEING SEEN,
CAPTAIN.
I CONCUR, MR. SPOCK.
SET PHASERS TO STUN,
JUST IN CASE.
[GROWLING]
FIRE.
Female voice: NO, DO NOT
USE YOUR WEAPONS.
I'M PARALYZED.
WE'RE HELD IN STASIS,
CAPTAIN.
PUT AWAY YOUR WEAPONS.
THESE ARE MY CHILDREN.
DO NOT HARM THEM.
-WHO ARE YOU?
I AM CAPTAIN
JAMES TIBERIUS KIRK
OF THE
STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
THIS IS MY FIRST OFFICER,
MR. SPOCK,
AND HONORARY COMMANDER
ARI BN BEM OF THE PLANET PANDRO.
WHY ARE YOU HERE?
WHY DO YOU DISTURB
THIS PLACE?
IT IS OUR MISSION.
WE MUST CLASSIFY
THIS PLANET.
WE HAVE TO TEST IT.
CLASSIFY?
WHAT GIVES YOU THE RIGHT
TO INTRUDE HERE?
THIS PLANET IS NOT
FOR YOUR USE.
MY CHILDREN ARE NOT
FOR YOUR TESTS.
YOUR WEAPONS
WILL BE NULLIFIED.
THERE ARE TIMES,
MR. SPOCK,
WHEN I THINK I SHOULD HAVE
BEEN A LIBRARIAN.
Spock: THE JOB OF LIBRARIAN
WOULD BE NO LESS CHALLENGING,
CAPTAIN,
BUT IT WOULD UNDOUBTEDLY
BE A LOT LESS DANGEROUS.
Scotty: HAVE YOU FOUND
THE CAPTAIN YET?
I HAVE LOCATED EMANATIONS
THAT COULD BE CAPTAIN KIRK'S
AND ANOTHER SET
THAT COULD BE MR. SPOCK'S,
BUT THE SENSORY ANOMALY
HAS INTERFERED
WITH OUR DETECTION DEVICES
SO THAT
POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION
REMAINS IMPOSSIBLE.
WHICH MEANS?
I THINK HE SAID, "MAYBE."
WELL, THAT CONVINCES ME.
READY A SECURITY SQUAD.
WE'RE GOING DOWN THERE.
ISSUE PHASER RIFLES.
YOU HAVE MISHANDLED
SITUATION AGAIN,
KIRK CAPTAIN.
THIS ONE JUDGES YOU
NOT AN INTELLIGENT COMMANDER.
COMMANDER BEM,
MR. SPOCK AND I
ARE HERE
BECAUSE WE THOUGHT
THAT YOU WERE
WORTH RESCUING.
[SIGHING]
IT WAS MORE TO PRESERVE
THE DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS
BETWEEN THE FEDERATION
AND PLANET PANDRO
THAN FROM ANY
GREAT AFFECTION FOR YOURSELF.
PLANET PANDRO IS UNCONCERNED
AS TO FATE OF THIS ONE.
PANDRO WILL NOT HAVE
DEALINGS WITH INEFFICIENT
AND INFERIOR SPECIES.
YOU HAVE FAILED EVERYTHING
YOU HAVE ATTEMPTED.
YOU HAVE NOT RESCUED
THIS ONE
AND YOU HAVE NOT
BEEN ABLE TO HANDLE
LOCAL ABORIGINES.
THIS ONE WISHES YOU...
WHAT IS THE EARTH WORD?
"LUCK."
YOU WILL REQUIRE IT.
WAIT! UNLOCK US.
SET US FREE!
CAPTAIN, PERHAPS WE CAN ATTRACT
THE ATTENTION
OF THE ALIEN INTELLIGENCE
AND REASON WITH IT.
IT'S WORTH A TRY.
KIRK TO ALIEN INTELLIGENCE.
THIS IS
CAPTAIN JAMES TIBERIUS KIRK
CALLING THE RULING
INTELLIGENCE OF THIS PLANET.
ANSWER ME, PLEASE.
PERHAPS AN OFFERING
OF SOME SORT, CAPTAIN.
MR. SPOCK, WHATEVER
WE'RE DEALING WITH,
I DON'T THINK
WE CAN BRIBE IT.
WE MUST BE HONEST.
KIRK TO ALIEN INTELLIGENCE.
I DON'T THINK IT'S STRONG ENOUGH
TO BE NOTICEABLE.
HMM.
IF WE CONNECT
OUR TWO COMMUNICATORS
IN SERIES,
WE CAN GIVE OFF
A HIGH-ENERGY BURST
WHICH MIGHT WORK,
BUT IT WILL ALSO RENDER
THE COMMUNICATORS POWERLESS
IN A VERY SHORT TIME.
DO IT.
THIS IS CAPTAIN
JAMES TIBERIUS KIRK
CALLING THE RULING
INTELLIGENCE OF THIS PLANET.
DO YOU HEAR ME?
KIRK TO ENTITY.
I AM HERE.
WE APOLOGIZE FOR INTRUDING.
WE DID NOT REALIZE
THE SITUATION.
WE WILL LEAVE.
WE WILL TELL OTHERS
OF OUR KIND
NOT TO BOTHER YOU HERE.
THIS IS GOOD. GO.
GO NOW AND DO NOT RETURN.
JUST ONE THING.
THERE IS A THIRD MEMBER
OF OUR GROUP.
I DETECT
NO THIRD INTELLIGENCE.
-HE HAS FLED.
-YOU MUST GO.
YOU MUST NOT INTERFERE
WITH MY CHILDREN.
I WILL ALLOW YOU
TO CONTACT YOUR SHIP.
GO NOW!
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
Uhura: ENTERPRISE.
UHURA HERE.
CAPTAIN, ARE YOU ALL RIGHT?
Kirk: STAND BY.
WE'RE NOT LEAVING
WITHOUT BEM.
HE IS OUR RESPONSIBILITY.
WE CAN'T LEAVE HIM HERE.
BEAM DOWN A SECURITY SQUAD
WITH HEAVY-DUTY TRICORDERS
SET FOR PANDRONIAN SCANNING.
Uhura: AYE, AYE, CAPTAIN.
CAPTAIN, ARE YOU ALL RIGHT?
THANKS, SCOTTY.
SPREAD OUT.
FIND COMMANDER BEM.
HE'S SPLIT INTO
THREE INDIVIDUAL PARTS.
Scotty: BEG PARDON, SIR?
HE'S SOME KIND OF
COLONY CREATURE.
AND TAKE CARE NOT TO INJURE
ANY OF THE NATIVES HERE.
PHASERS ON LIGHTEST POSSIBLE
STUN SETTING.
AND DON'T FIRE
UNLESS ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY.
[GROWLING]
LET'S GET OUT OF HERE BEFORE
WE MAKE ANY MORE TROUBLE.
EMBARRASSMENT RESULTS.
THIS ONE IS SHAMED.
THIS ONE HAS FAILED
IN ITS JUDGMENT.
YOU HAVE ENDANGERED
ALL OF US BY YOUR ACTIONS,
AND YOU HAVE FORCED US
TO INTERFERE WITH THE NATIVES
OF A PLANET
THAT DESERVES
PRIME DIRECTIVE PROTECTION.
THIS ONE EXISTS
BY ITS OWN STANDARDS.
Kirk: NOT ON MY SHIP
YOU DON'T.
YOU ARE STILL HERE?
YOU ARE STILL INTERFERING?
I AM ANGERED.
WE COULD NOT LEAVE
ONE OF OUR OWN BEHIND.
IT IS OUR RESPONSIBILITY
TO TAKE CARE OF OUR OWN,
JUST AS
IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
TO TAKE CARE OF YOURS.
WE COULD NOT LEAVE HIM HERE,
WHERE HE MIGHT
FURTHER INTERFERE WITH YOUR...
YOUR CHILDREN.
YES.
YOU HAVE SOME WISDOM,
JAMES TIBERIUS KIRK.
THE LOST ONE IS FOUND, THEN?
HE IS FOUND.
AND WE WILL LEAVE.
THIS ONE HAS GREATLY ERRED.
THE MISSION WAS TO JUDGE,
AND RIGHT OF JUDGMENT
WAS NOT CONFERRED.
THIS ONE MUST
DISASSEMBLE UNITY.
DISASSEMBLE?
NEVER TO EXIST AGAIN
AS A COOPERATION.
THIS UNITY IS DEFECTIVE.
THIS UNITY MUST CEASE
TO EXIST.
NO, DO NOT
DESTROY YOURSELF.
BUT THIS ONE HAS ERRED.
THIS ONE HAS TRIED
TO JUDGE KIRK AND SPOCK
AND BEEN FOUND
WANTING HIMSELF.
THIS ONE HAS ACTED BADLY.
YES. YOU HAVE ERRED.
BUT IF YOU DISASSEMBLE,
YOU CANNOT LEARN
FROM YOUR ERROR.
ERRORS DEMAND RECOGNITION
SO THAT THEY WILL
NOT BE REPEATED.
YOU DO NOT DEMAND
PUNISHMENT?
WHAT IS PUNISHMENT?
REVENGE?
INTELLIGENT BEINGS
NEED NO REVENGE.
PUNISHMENT IS NECESSARY
ONLY WHERE LEARNING
CANNOT OCCUR WITHOUT IT.
YOU ARE BEHIND THAT.
MY CHILDREN HERE ARE NOT.
THAT IS WHY
YOU MUST LEAVE,
SO AS NOT TO CORRUPT
THEIR DEVELOPMENT
WITH CONCEPTS THAT THEY ARE NOT
YET READY FOR.
I AM HUMBLED.
WE WILL GO NOW.
YES.
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
BEAM US UP.
STAND BY TO BREAK ORBIT.
MR. SPOCK,
CLASSIFY THIS PLANET AS BEING
STRICTLY QUARANTINED.
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES
MAY ANY FEDERATION VESSEL
APPROACH.
PANDRO WILL RESPECT
THAT ALSO.
CAPTAIN, I COMPLIMENT YOU
ON A WISE DECISION.
IT IS NECESSARY.
NOT ONLY FOR THEM,
BUT FOR US AS WELL.
FASCINATING, CAPTAIN.
A HIGHLY ADVANCED
ALIEN ENTITY
USING THIS PARTICULAR SYSTEM
AS A LABORATORY
FOR GUIDING ANOTHER RACE
TO INTELLIGENCE.
ALMOST A GOD,
YOU MIGHT SAY.
MR. SPOCK,
THE DIFFERENCE IS MEANINGLESS.
IN COMPARISON,
WE'RE ALL STILL CHILDREN.
IN THIS ONE'S CASE,
KIRK CAPTAIN,
THIS ONE IS STILL AN EGGLING.
TAKE US OUT OF ORBIT,
MR. SULU. LET'S GO HOME.
CAPTAIN, I'M PICKING UP
A MESSAGE.
PUT IT ON AUDIO,
LIEUTENANT UHURA.
GO IN PEACE.
YES. GO IN PEACE.
YOU HAVE LEARNED MUCH.
BE PROUD.